FACT_STATEMENT	HAVANA –  Cuba said Tuesday that it will turn over to the United States a Florida couple who allegedly kidnapped their own children from the mother's parents and fled by boat to Havana, ending days of drama that evoked memories of the Elian Gonzalez custody battle of more than a decade ago.
FACT_STATEMENT	Foreign Ministry official Johana Tablada told The Associated Press in a written statement Tuesday that Cuba had informed U.S. authorities of the country's decision to turn over Joshua Michael Hakken, his wife Sharyn, and their two young boys.
FACT_STATEMENT	She did not say when the handover would occur, but reporters saw Sharyn Hakken leaving the dock of Havana's Hemingway Marina in the back seat of a Cuban government vehicle and workers later said that all four Hakkens had been taken away.
FACT_STATEMENT	An AP reporter spotted the family earlier Tuesday beside their boat at the marina. A man who resembled photographs of Joshua Michael Hakken yelled out "Stop! Stay back!" as the reporter approached, but there was no outward sign of tension or distress between the family members.
THIRD_PARTY_QUOTE	Tablada said the Foreign Ministry had informed U.S. diplomats on the island "of the Cuban government's willingness to turn over ... U.S. citizens Joshua Michael Hakken, his wife Sharyn Patricia and their two minor sons."
THIRD_PARTY_QUOTE	She said Cuba tipped the State Department off to the Hakkens' presence on Sunday and that from that moment "diplomatic contact has been exchanged and a professional and constant communication has been maintained."
FACT_STATEMENT	U.S. authorities say Hakken kidnapped his sons, 4-year-old Cole and 2-year-old Chase, from his mother-in-law's house north of Tampa. 
FACT_STATEMENT	The boys' maternal grandparents had been granted permanent custody of the boys last week.
BACKGROUND	The U.S. and Cuba share no extradition agreement and the island nation is also not a signatory of the Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction, an international treaty for governmental cooperation on such cases.
BACKGROUND	Cuba has harbored U.S. fugitives in the past, though most of those cases date back to the 1960s and 70s, when the island became a refuge for members of the Black Panthers and other militant groups. 
BACKGROUND	More recently, dozens of Cuban Medicare fraud fugitives in the U.S. have tried to escape prosecution by returning to the island.
BACKGROUND	But Cuba has also cooperated with U.S. authorities in returning several criminal fugitives in recent years, including Leonard B. Auerbach in 2008. 
BACKGROUND	Auerbach was wanted in California on federal charges of sexually abusing a Costa Rican girl and possessing child pornography. He was deported.
BACKGROUND	In 2011, U.S. marshals flew to Cuba and took custody of two American suspects wanted in a New Jersey murder.
FACT_STATEMENT	Hakken lost custody of his sons last year after a drug possession arrest in Louisiana and later tried to take the children from a foster home at gunpoint, authorities said. 
FACT_STATEMENT	A warrant has been issued for his arrest on two counts of kidnapping; interference with child custody; child neglect; false imprisonment and other charges.
THIRD_PARTY_QUOTE	"My team and I working very hard to ensure safety for two Amcit kids," Conrad Tribble, the No. 2 U.S. diplomat on the island, said via Twitter later Tuesday, using a shorthand for "American citizens."
FACT_STATEMENT	According to the Hillsborough County Sheriff's Office, Hakken entered his mother-in-law's Florida house last Wednesday, tied her up and fled with his sons. 
FACT_STATEMENT	Federal, state and local authorities searched by air and sea for a boat Hakken had recently bought. 
FACT_STATEMENT	The truck Hakken, his wife and the boys had been traveling in was found Thursday, abandoned in Madeira Beach, Florida.
THIRD_PARTY_QUOTE	"He'll have to face in Hillsborough county the charges he has with the sheriff's office," spokeswoman Cristal Bermudez Nunez Nunez said. She said she did not know how the family would be returned or what will happen when they arrive on U.S. soil.
FACT_STATEMENT	Terri Durdaller, a spokeswoman at the Florida Department of Children and Families, said it was not clear where the children will ultimately be placed.
THIRD_PARTY_QUOTE	"Louisiana is the ultimate decision maker on where these children will reside. It's likely they will be placed back in Florida with the grandmother," she said.
BACKGROUND	The family's flight to Cuba harkened back to the 1999 child custody case involving Elian Gonzalez, though unlike Gonzalez, the Hakkens had no apparent ties to the island.
BACKGROUND	In 1999, 5-year-old Gonzalez was found clinging to an inner tube off Florida after his mother and others drowned while fleeing Cuba toward American soil. The boy was taken to Miami to live with relatives, but his father in Cuba demanded the boy be sent back.
BACKGROUND	U.S. courts ultimately ruled Gonzalez should be sent back, though his Miami relatives refused to return him. In April 2000, U.S. federal agents raided the family's home and he was returned to Cuba soon after. He has since grown into a young man and joined a military academy.
FACT_STATEMENT	At the Havana marina on Tuesday, the family showed no sign they knew a decision about their fate had been made. 
FACT_STATEMENT	The four strolled by an outdoor restaurant as security officials kept reporters at a distance.
FACT_STATEMENT	The youngest child was seated in a stroller and the elder boy sat down on a curb. 
FACT_STATEMENT	A woman who resembled Sharyn Hakken was seen on the boat.
FACT_STATEMENT	Cuban officials told reporters not to take pictures of the family or the boat, which bore the name Salty and had a paw print on its side.
FACT_STATEMENT	Andrew Zych, a Canadian docked in a sailboat steps away from the Hakkens, said the family had arrived recently and seemed normal.
THIRD_PARTY_QUOTE	"I liked the way they played with the kids," he said, adding he was surprised to learn of events in the U.S.
